High in this video we're going to look at docstring and default values for named topples.
Now when we create a name topple basically using the name of function some dots strings are actually
created for us automatically.
So let's take a look.
Let's say that we have our old friend here point to D.
Right.
It has.
This is the name of the class that's going to get created point to D.
And these are the two fields that we're going to have in this class.
The two properties X and Y SO point to D has a dunder dark attribute which contains this string over
here.
Point to D.
X com a y.
So that's the docstring that was created for us automatically.
We also have the attributes X and Y and they also have their own docstring.
And so we have this by default as the docstring for that property X alias for field number 0 and for
why it's a is Woodfield number one because X is being mapped to zero.
And why is being mapped to one in terms of indices inside the underlying Tuckahoe.
So if we call a help on point to deam then we'll get this.
Now there's actually a lot more included in here.
I've just trimmed out and only left in the pieces that actually apply with regards to the done the dark.
So you can see this point to the X Connal y that came from the Underdark of point to D and then these
two strings over here.
Describing X and Y came from the dark of X and Y respectively.
Dundalk is a ridable attribute so we can actually modify it.
We can write to it essentially.
And of course this isn't unique to named topples those you know will work for functions classes and
what have you.
So we just have to say this point to the.
Dundon the OP equals and then whatever you want is the docstring.
In this case represents a two dimensional Cartesian coordinates.
We can do the same thing with the attributes x and y.
So here I changed it to x coordinates and why I've changed to y coordinates.
You can make it whatever you want.
And now when we call help this is what we get.
We get the docstring here represents a 2D Cartesian coordinates and then we get the doctrines for X
and Y respectively.
So very very straightforward.
The next thing we should look at are default values when we have when we call the name topple function.
There is no way to actually specify default values for the fields that we're creating.
Right.
We pass the fields either as a string that's separated by whites you know with character with farm field
names separated by white space or it could be and iterable that contain strings for each of the field
names.
But there's no way to actually provide a default value.
So there's two approaches to actually setting default values.
The first one is actually documented in the Python docs on line and they use this prototype approach.
Let me explain how that works.
The first thing is after we've created our name topple let's say point to d we then create an instance
of that name topple with values right.
We have to create an instance we have to pass a values we use our default values in there and we're
going to call this the prototype.
So we're going to create a new instance of point to D and pass in 0 0.
For example the default value for that now becomes our prototype instance of the name top then any additional
instances that we want to create.
We're going to create not by calling point to D but by calling the underscore replace method of the
prototype instance that we just created and then we only have to replace what we you know the feels
where we don't want to use the default essentially.
Of course that means that when you create your prototype you have to supply a value or a default for
every field.
Of course you can always make those defaults none those values none.
That's perfectly fine.
So we'll take a look at how to do that in a second but let's cover now the second approach which uses
the dummy a default property which is a standard property that's available in Python.
On methods for example on functions and this allows us to specify the defaults for a particular function.
So we are going to directly set the default of the name Toppo constructor because when we create an
instance of a name topple we are actually calling the Dundon new method.
So that in a prior video.
So what we're going to do is basically inject the optional.
We're going to inject the default values into the done the new method and so we won't need to specify
a default for every field before we go on and actually look at that.
Let me just read you all remind you of the fact that you cannot have non-default of parameters after
the first default parameter when you're creating a function.
What I mean by this is that this function here has a with no default value and then B and C both have
default values.
That's ok right.
We've seen that before.
This one however is not OK.
A doesn't have a default.
That's OK.
B has a default.
That's OK too.
But C doesn't have a default and that's a problem because C must have a default since B has a default.
All right so just keep that in mind and you'll see why in a second.
So let's see an example of where we would use this prototype approach.
Let's do a vector to do it let's create a vector 2D name topple.
So that's the name of the class and it's going to have x y y y x to y.
So the start and end of the vector essentially in Cartesian coordinates.
But I also want to provide the origin of this coordinate system because I may have a point where I want
to say well I've got a vector but the origin in the system is you know something other than maybe 0
comes 0.
But I would like 0 0 to be the default for Origin X and origin 1.
But I want to be able to change it as well.
So here's how we would do it.
Well prototype we first create this instance of vector to D and let's call it vector underscore zero
and we provide values for every single field in there.
We have to because when we create an instance of vector to the we have to provide all the values for
all the fields.
So here I chose to put 0 everywhere.
We could have put none for X one y one x to y to and then kept 0 and 0 for Origin X and origin y.
I just chose to use 0 for everything.
We could also have done it this way of course without using the keyword approach.
So now we have this vector 0 instance that is just two Divakar with all these bands.
So now to construct new instances of vector 2D we're going to use vector 0.
We are not going to use vector to d anymore.
We kind of put that aside we don't touch that again.
Instead we're going to use this vector 0 as our prototype and we're going to use the underscore replace
method remember with the underscore replace method does.
It takes keyword arguments that specifies the values that you want to modify in vector 0.
So here what we're going to do is we're going to say well I want to specify values for x one y one X
to Y two but I'm not going to specify values for Origin X and origin y.
So this will be carried over from vector 0 when it creates the new vector v 1 because remember that
underscore replace creates a new.
So this is how we can achieve essentially having default values.
Here you notice I didn't have to specify origin X and origin y.
But the one has values of 0.
For both of those because it basically did not override 0 and 0 in this call here.
But if I wanted to I could have specified origin underscore X equals minus one origin underscore y equals
minus 1.
And then I would have had minus 1 and minus 1 in here.
So now let's look at the second approach the.
And the Dundon defaults before we get on to how to use that with a name topple.
Let me just show you how it works with just a plain function.
So let's say we have this function here which has three parameters.
The last two have defaults.
If we look at this Dundon defaults property of phunk it will return a topple containing the defaults
just listed at 10 com 20.
And we need to think about how this 10 and 20 lines of the parameters a b and c so let's write them
out on two separate lines and we're going to write a line them not left line them we're going to write
a line them.
And the way it walks is that anything that's kind of blank here means there's no default and then everything
after that means that's the default.
And you'll notice that's why we can't have a blank right.
We cannot specify a default will be without specifying a default for C as well because that position
of the default values determines which parameter it's actually mapping the default to.
So what's interesting is that the done default property is actually write table so we can create a function
and specify the defaults this way.
Or we could also just specify the function without defaults and then set the Dunder default property
to 10 comma 20.
It would essentially end up doing the same thing.
The only caveat is that it needs to be a top.
We can give it a list or anything else it has to be a top.
But it's our choice.
We can give it what values we want.
Arm don't provide more defaults and there are parameters.
It's OK to do that.
The extras are just ignored.
So let's say you set the default here for this function to be zero.
Come one come at 10 come a 20.
Well if you think about the right aligning those two you'd have zero kind of sitting on its own out
here one under the eight and then 10 and 20 and a B and C so they would have a default of one B of 10
C of 20 and that extra zero just gets ignored essentially.
But probably bad practice to specify more defaults then you have parameters in your function that could
cause problems elsewhere.
So now how do we use the underscore the Dunder defaults while remember work.
Where are we going to set these default values.
We're setting these default values in the class constructor.
Right.
We have let's say this vector to D.
And when we call vector to deal with values we have to pass in those six values.
What does it do.
It calls the Dundon new method in the vector to the class.
And so what we want to do is we want to set default values for the Dundon new method.
So that's very simple.
All we do after we've created our vector 2d.
So we'd created as usual nothing's changed here.
The only thing is that the next step is we specify a tough op for the Dundon you've done the defaults.
So vector to deduct under you duck down the default equals and then whatever we want as our default
values.
Now remember again we're going to write a line.
These defaults with the parameter names.
So in other words we get this kind of alignment.
So origin X will now have a default of 0 origin Y will have a default of 0 up and then these don't have
a default.
So now how do we create a vector to D.
Well we can do it this way we can say 10 come at 10 come 20 come at 20.
We only passed four positional arguments.
We could also make them keyword arguments that be fine as well.
And it's going to go into x y y one x to y to respectively and then these two are just going to take
on the default van.
And so this is what we get right.
We get that X one was 10 y one was 10 x 2 was 20 y tu was 20 and then the origin stayed 0.
So the same as what we had before.
But you'll notice this is a lot cleaner.
Right before the approach we had to do.
First of all we up first created the fact that vector 0 is a vector to D.
Ok maybe I could have chosen a better variable name here.
Should have made it maybe vector to d underscore 0 or something like that.
But it's still being upscaled.
And then the other thing too that we have to now call this underscore replace.
It's you know as just kind of when we're not creating a new instance we are because underscore replaced
creates a new instance but it doesn't look like we're creating a new instance.
We have to know that you know we're creating a new instance of a class.
This is not how we usually create instances of a class.
We do it this way.
That's a more traditional approach that people will understand.
It's more readable.
And then secondly we have to specify all these values using keyword arguments.
We have to use keyword arguments.
We cannot use this approach here of using just positional is because the underscore replace requires
keyword arguments.
So we lose that flexibility as well.
So for those reasons I prefer the dhanda defaults approach rather than the prototypical approach.
So let's switch to some code and let's see all this in action.
Thanks for watching.
I'll see you in a bit.